---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Expanding Programming Horizons with JavaScript
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - JavaScript
---

**Learning JavaScript**

The computer science curriculum starts a student off with a popular high level language, typically on the lines of Java and Python. Then, as that student continues down this academic road, they find themselves delving into lower level languages, even to the point of using something as low as DLX, with the direct manipulation of registers and memory. 

Now after learning JavaScript and having played around with it, it certainly is a language that is very easy to pick up, especially if you have prior experience in programming. All of the fundamental programming language characteristics are here, from variable declarations, flavors of loops, and object oriented features, wrapped together in a simple and eloquent languange. Essentially, on the surface, this language bears resemblance to its sibling languange, Java, but perhaps even more clearner looking. 

One of the aspect of JavaScript that really caught my attention was the declaration of variables, namely the removal of seperate primative types in favor for a universal "primative". If one were to take a coding tutorial for JavaScript, you would be working around with the single "var" primative keyword rather than the standard primatives and even data types such as arrays and lists. While "var" is a viable declaration keyword, it is good practice to use keywords "let" and "const". Unlike "var", these keywords incorporate scope into their declaration of the variable. 

For example: 

```javascript
function varExample() {
  var thing = "this is a var!";
}

console.log(thing);
```
```javascript
function letExample() {
  let thing = "this is a var!";
}

console.log(thing); // will not work due to the declaration being in a different code block
```

This makes programming less about the the syntax of the code and more about what is actually being coded. 

