---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Software Engineering: The Beginning
date: 2018-01-20
labels:
  - Learning
  - Software Engineering
---

***The Greatest Good***

Though the field of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) encompasses myriad profressions and practices, what fundamental binds them all together is the goal of improving human life. From simplifying daily tasks with machines and programs, to furthering the limits of human knowledge; those in the field of STEM work towards a brighter future. It is this goal that many people, including myself, have chosen Computer Science as thier field of choice. Computer Science is a field of study where other fields, even those outside of STEM, can utilize. With that sort of universefulness it is no suprise that Computer Science is one of the fastest growing fields to this day. And one of, if not the most, popular subfields in Computer Science is that of Software Engineering. 

***Interests in Software Engineering***

While there are many subfields in Computer Science, Software Engineering is the subfield that nearly all Computer Scientists dab into. Here at The University of Hawaii at Manoa, Software Engineering is part of the core curriculum and is the foundation for many of the higher level classes. 

So far in my academic career, most of the coursework had centered around theory and mathmatics. And while I firmly belive that these two subjects are critical for anyone studying Computer Science, the experience that a Software Engineering course provides is almost just as essential, especially for those who plan to work in a buisness type workplace. Beyond the practical use of code and algorithms, Software Engineering can cultivate a student's professionalism. To learn what it is to be on a team working on the same project, making connections with your peers, creating a portfolio that logs your endeavors; all of these aspects are key for a student who is close to becoming a professional in the real world. 




