---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Beginning Software Engineering
date: 2017-01-20
labels:
  - Learning
  - Software Engineering
---



Though the field of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) encompasses myriad profressions and practices, what fundamental binds them all together is the goal of improving human life. From simplifying daily tasks with machines and programs, to furthering the limits of human knowledge; those in the field of STEM work towards a greater, if not the greatest, good. 

It is this goal that many people, including myself, have chosen Computer Science as thier field of choice. Computer Science is a field of study where other fields, even those outside of STEM, can utilize. With that sort of universefulness it is no suprise that Computer Science is one of the fastest growing fields to this day. And one of, if not the most, popular subfields in Computer Science is that of Software Engineering. 

***Interests in Software Engineering***

While there are many subfields in Computer Science, Software Engineering is the subfield that nearly all Computer Scientists dab into. Here at The University of Hawaii at Manoa, Software Engineering is part of the core curriculum and is the foundation for many of the higher level classes. 

Software Engineering adds more of a practical approach to what we Computer Science Student have learned thus far. In this regard, I hope to learn more how to develop programs and software that is for the user. I want understand that fine balance between a program's efficency and the interface and options that a user would appreciate. I also wish, as any programmer would, to expand my language library and learn different development environments and software. 

***Beyond Programming***

So far in my academic career, most of the coursework had centered around theory and mathmatics. And while I firmly believe that these two subjects are critical for anyone studying Computer Science, the experience that a Software Engineering course provides is almost just as essential, especially for those who plan to work in a buisness type workplace. Beyond the practical use of code and algorithms, Software Engineering can cultivate a student's professionalism. To learn what it is to be on a team working on the same project, making connections with your peers, creating a portfolio that logs your endeavors; all of these aspects are key for a student who is close to becoming a professional in the real world. 

A person can be the best programmer in the world, but without people skills and work ethic, their skills would go to waste as no firm or buisness would want that type of worker. I hope to not be that guy by the end of this semester. I hope that with what skills that I acquire and what things I learn, I can be a stronger person and a stronger Computer Scientist. For the sake of myself and for the sake of that greatest good. 


